testimonials:
  "Stephen Ray": |
    I worked with Brian at FINRA where he was managing the R&D program. He excelled at keeping us organized and on track, minimizing the common risk of R&D programs not staying focussed on work of value to the enterprise. His experience with delivering final presentations professionally helped our team inspire interest in our project, leading to several development projects based on the work we did. I would reccomend Brian strongly in any position where planning, management, and communication are paramount to success.

  "Margaret Berry": |
    When Brian was my manager at Sparkfund, he did a wonderful job of fostering a culture of trust and respect on our team. He got the best work out of everyone on the team by treating us as professionals, supporting us and making it clear that he cared. Brian made sure to connect with individual team members frequently to ensure that we were happy with our work, and progressing in our careers the way we wanted to. I felt comfortable coming to him with any issues or suggestions, and had confidence that he would listen and help if possible. Brian also has a gift for juggling everything that’s going on with his team and with company leadership, and keeping both sides informed. Day to day, he was always checking in to make sure that we had everything we needed to keep work moving forward. I always had the feeling that he was there to help, but never felt like he was checking up on me, and that enabled me to focus on work and get things done quickly. I would love to work on a team that he manages again.

  "Sage Reynolds": |
    Brian is the best manager I've ever worked for, full stop. His ability to build, lead, and manage high productivity software teams with a positive and collaborative culture is unmatched among the dozen plus managers I've worked for in my career. As as engineer, it's usually pretty easy to tell which managers genuinely care about the health and wellbeing of their workers and the productivity of their teams, and which don't. Brian is foremost among those that do, in my mind. I would work for him again without reservation. He is a massive credit to any organization he is a part of.

  "Virginia Morgan": |
    Brian was an amazing manager.  He really cares about his team.  I couldn't have asked for better support.  He was very responsive and an open communicator.  He was a strong leader and drove progress.  He gave team members opportunities to grow.  I will really miss being a part of his team.

  "Michael Moser": |
    I am happy to recommend Brian Runk for his exceptional leadership skills and technical expertise. His strong technical background enables him to understand the nuances of software development, which in turn makes him an effective leader when it comes to building and delivering software solutions.
    
    What I appreciate most about Brian is his genuine concern for the people on his team. He always takes the time to listen to his team members, understand their concerns, and provide support where needed. This creates an environment of trust and respect, which ultimately leads to a high-performing team.
    
    He is an excellent communicator and always ensures that his team is on the same page, no matter how complex the project may be. He also has a talent for helping and encouraging others to break down complex problems into smaller, manageable tasks, which makes it easier for his team to tackle them.
    
    Overall, I highly recommend Brian Runk as a leader and technical expert. He would be an asset to any organization looking to build a high-performing team that delivers outstanding results.
    
    Additionally, I would like to highlight that even after our team was disbanded, Brian continues to go above and beyond to support us in finding new work opportunities. He has provided us with valuable insights, networking opportunities, and recommendations that l'm sure will be instrumental in helping us find new roles in the industry.
    
    His unwavering commitment to his team members is truly commendable, and it speaks volumes about his character as a leader. I have no doubt that anyone who has the opportunity to work with Brian will benefit from his expertise, leadership, and genuine concern for the success and well-being of his team.

  "Will Alexander, PMP, LEED AP, CEM, CCM, SFP, BEAP, CEA": |
    Brian and I overlapped during our respective tenures at Sparkfund. I found him to be a collaborative and supportive colleague and an effective manager of talent. We were always a semi-virtual company with employees splitting time between the headquarters and remote locations of their choosing; the pandemic forced a prolonged virtual period for all of us. Not only did this result in 'additional duties as assigned' for Brian and his team, it also meant that folks had to be more intentional in their interactions and communications with one another. Brian was always one of the colleagues that I looked forward to engaging with during our various team-building exercises and company-wide stand-ups. A few of us, of which Brian was nearly always a member, often would sign on early and stay on well after the formal proceedings had concluded. He is a great coworker and experienced leader of teams. I'm sure our paths will cross again in the future.

  "Ryan Miling": |
    Brian and I first met at BzzAgent in 2008 and his first impression has laid a lasting foundation to our professional relationship today. Being a new Junior Engineer in a company with a tight-knit team can always be overwhelming at first, but Brian provided me with the comfortable shadowing to grow my technical skills and establish confidence in the workplace.
    
    To this day I am appreciative of the relationship that we have developed - seeing each other eye-to-eye and discussing future innovations in the technical world. There’s something to be said for someone that can always present high-level technological approaches in a digestible form. I truly look forward to working directly with him again in the future, and the least I can recommend is his professionalism, architectural chops, and leadership capabilities that put him above the bar.

  "Samara Jellesma": |
    Brian is passionate about building great teams and creating a productive and fun culture. The core platform team that Brian and I both worked on had many competing  “top priorities" which required thoughtful coordination. Brian was great to work with when it came to coordinating priorities in relation to business needs and development resources. While under pressure to deliver top business priorities, Brian also made a significant effort to reduce our defect count in order to improve user experience and code quality. With Brian’s lead, the team reduced our defect count from >300 to ~30 which resulted in far fewer support calls. Brian also took charge and project managed many cross functional technical efforts which enabled multiple teams to meet tight deadlines that wouldn't have been met without Brian's supervision.

  "Carl Eklof": |
    I've worked with Brian multiple times over the past 12 years, going back to being coworkers at Endeca. Whether it's some development need, or business consulting, he not only delivers, but always seems to have that little bit extra to contribute.

  "Alice M.": |
    Brian has a near-psychic ability to build a great team. My team at Constant Contact, which Brian managed, was a large, geographically distributed group that could easily have become fragmented. But Brian's hiring decisions and strong community-building influence bolstered a tight-knit, motivated dynamic. Under Brian's guidance, my teammates and I delivered a lot of code and had fun in the process. We were a group who held each other accountable while truly caring about one another’s success.
    
    Brian also cares more deeply about developing talent than anyone else I know. When I was first starting out as a junior developer, having him as a mentor was invaluable. I’m especially grateful to him for encouraging me to give my first conference talk despite my initial nervousness. Throughout the whole process of conceiving, developing, and revising my talk, Brian was always available to discuss ideas and give feedback. I still turn to him often for motivation, advice, or a good laugh. I’d feel lucky to be able to work with him again in the future.

  "John Brosnan": |
    Brian ran my team during the development and rollout of a massive project. His leadership kept the team humming during stressful times and his technical background made us vastly more effective at sharing information and knowledge with the rest of the organization, all while managing teams spread across the Boston and NYC offices.
    
    Without Brian joining our team when he did, we NEVER would have launched.
    
    His technical acumen, managerial skill and encouragement helped many of us on the team move up in our careers, meet goals, learn new technologies, and become part of the tech community by running meet-ups, running trips to conferences.
